Now let's begin step two of converting
this app from JavaScript to TypeScript.
So we mostly allow implicit entities so
far,
so I'm going to forbid
them making any explicit.
This is going to require a change
in our compiler settings,
it's just one line in our TSConfig.
So we're gonna say noImplicitAny true,
And we can run TSC.
The only reason I've been running TSC
instead of yarn build is there are other
aspects of the build like the styles and
I don't wanna worry about that so much.
I want us to have a nice
little quick iteration here.
In fact, I think I could do
--watch --preserveWatchOutput,
And let's see, great.
So now we should be able to see
automatic refreshes as we go around and
kind of play whack-a-mole here.
So now there are these things where
implicit entities were flying and
it's our job to get rid of them.
So this is more bringing
things in from JSDoc
typings into the function
signature itself.
And we'll bring that return string here
since it was in that comment, Cool.
So that's done App.tsx,
let's see what's needed here, Match.
Where's that?
It's here, but I'm not seeing a squiggly.
I mean, it's on line 40, so
I'm pretty sure that this works.
If you've used React Router before,
we need to just
specify that this match is
where we find our URL params.
So we've got /teamId, right,
that's like a dynamic portion of the URL.
And we just need to state it as such.
So, Something like this and
this type here,
right, so I'm saying here's an object,
I'm destructuring, right?
I'm gonna get an object,
it has this property on it called match or
match is this thing from React Router.
And for my URL,
the placeholder I have is called teamId.
So it's coming from here,
react-router-dom.
So react-router-dom it's exposing some
type information to me, which is great.
All right, what's going on here?
So I've got this useAsyncDataEffect,
I can tell you what this does.
And we don't need to worry
about how it works too much.
But this through the use of the effect
hook fires off an API call and
effectively it updates a piece of state
when that API response comes back.
Again, I'm simply just taking
things out of the JS.comments and
putting them into the function signature.
So there's number on and
here's number two,
this is like my little options object and
then we return void.
So options, paste, and then return void.
Now promise is gonna want some
type information here, right,
it needs to be a promise any,
which is still fine at this point, right?
We're at explicit anys, interesting so
this was a typo and my JSdoc.
Now, this shows you that I didn't really
get validation in my JS.comment, right?
So this is not a valid type x,
is not a valid type here, but
I did not get red squiggles in my comment.
Because sort of a best effort
to use that type of information.
So here, I'll say,
I take it any and I return a void,
cuz that's my setter.
This would be the setter
that comes with us state,
if you're familiar with that react API.
So down here, this is an any,
I'm just gonna make it explicit, right?
This is one of the bullet points
in my slide for step two,
explicit entities are fine, we're not
trying to make this perfect or anything.
So I'm just gonna catch up with my console
here and just keep clicking on files and
keep, basically,
here I can be a little more specific.
Since, I already have a pretty
strong signal that this is an error,
like an error object coming in.
This is gonna return a string,
other things in this file,
this one's interesting.
So, This in
many cases will work,
in fact, it will always work.
It's not always gonna be useful,
when I say it will always work,
I mean sometimes you'll get square bracket
object not the most interesting string.
So I'm just gonna need to,
I'm just gonna disable this cuz the whole
point here is I'm trying to print
an error message out to the console.
And normally,
I wouldn't wanna do it but, normally,
I would wanna do something
more sophisticated.
But it's sort of a last result
of last resort at this place.
What I mean, in a little more detail is,
I'm checking to see if this value,
this error thing,
it's an instance of an error.
And if it is,
I'm printing it out in a in a nicer way.
I have a method, all right, so I have
a function here to Stringify that Error.
In the case where it's not,
if it's a truthy value,
that is not an error instance,
the best I can really do is Stringify it,
attempt to Stringify it.
So we're already in last resort territory,
so
I feel like it's fair to just try
to coerce it to a string there.
All right, we have a deferred here, raise
your hand if you know to deferred is?
Nobody, Mark knows what a deferred is.
He knows what a deferred is because
he did a lot of work with J Query.
This was part of a lot of
early JavaScript libraries,
I used it in Dojo all the time.
I want you to think of a deferred
as an inverted promise.
Meaning I can hand you a deferred and
I might listen to a promise,
and then pass you the ability
to resolve or reject it.
So imagine if you're spinning up,
if you're opening a modal and
you want to give someone else
the ability to close it or
to do something when it's closed.
So, there maybe some one side needs
the ability to resolve reject,
one side needs the ability to monitor for
when that happens.
So this is sort of an inversion of control
and I need to type this stuff now.
Because these are entities at the moment,
actually,
I wanna follow my role and
we're not going to get too clever here.
We're just gonna make
these anys right now.
Who's seen this hash tag at
the beginning of the field before?
Show hands, Couple of people,
Landry and Peter have seen this before.
So private class fields, this is that hard
privacy we were talking about earlier.
Meaning even if you set a breakpoint like
a debugger, and you looked at one of
these deferreds, you wouldn't be able
to directly access these properties.
You'd be able to get at these down here,
cuz these are exposed
to the outside world.
But I wouldn't, for example,
be able to grab a deferred and
shove a new promise onto it.
Cuz it's a private,
the source of truth is that private field.
All right, still playing
whack-a-mole with errors, okay,
we're almost at the finish line here.
There's our string,
there's our date, delete,
delete, save, one error,
what error at the last one.
But where is it, we're moving so
fast that our editor can't even keep up.
So there's line 22 of Team.tsx,
so there's match.
So this hasn't picked up yet, but I
believe, I bet if I restart my TS server,
If I restarted out there it is see.
So on a larger project,
this isn't even that big of a project, but
as you're refactoring this
as you're changing things,
sometimes you just need to kick
the server to get it back in gear.
Okay, so this is our React Router type and
channelId is the dynamic
portion of the URL this time.
And let's use our auto import magic
match from React Router seems good.
Save Found 0 errors, so
we're done with step two.
Seems like a lot, but let me recap.
It was a lot of code changes, but
a lot of the same code changes.
So in many places, we added this, we had
to in order to get JSX happy with us,
we had to say this is not just a function
that takes an object with the team, right?
This is a React function component,
there are other aspects to
a function component beyond
the props that you receive.
For example, it returns a JSX element,
it takes as an argument, children.
These are not things that
show up in your code, but
they're definitely parts of that type.
And so TypeScript is not gonna be happy
with you until you put that there.
And the reason you don't
see them in your code,
they're part of what you were really
writing when you're using JSX.
They would be explicit parts of
your code if you used react in a TS
file without JSX, you would have
to be passing children around.
You'd have to be explicitly calling
these functions as functions, this
kind of brings to the surface what is JSX
actually doing for you behind the scenes.
It gives you a nice familiar syntax,
but all these little,
like, the reason we had to
apply this little tweak
is because of what JSX
really means under the hood.
The other things that we had
to do were for our routing,
we had to deal with React Router, right?
We had to say, look this match thing,
I have to thread that through,
I have to state what is this match thing.
And that's an important aspect
of us being able to get that
dynamic information from the URL.
By the way, let's see how the apps doing,
let's make sure it actually works.
Look, I'm happy that builds,
oops, just sec,
I may have something
that's already running.
In fact, I'm quite sure I do,
Where might it be?
All right lesson in
trying to find processes,
So I use htop, filter and
it looks like,
I've got a lot of note here.
Just go to check my other terminal
real quick, yep, there it is,
I'd my Parcel Bundler
working in my other tab.
Now, it should work, so
the error I was getting is like
the port is already in use, oops.
All right, time for
the nuclear weapon, [LAUGH]
You don't wanna do that a whole lot,
by the way, oops, what's going on here?
No such directory App.jsx,
I'm gonna chalk this up, well,
let me finish my previous thought,
I feel I don't wanna get too
many tangents deep here.
So you don't wanna do this too often,
this stops things like language servers,
which maintain incremental build
information in the background.
So if you do this all the time,
you're defeating
some of the development tools
that are storing state.
And trying to do as little work as
possible in order to make your offering
environment nice and responsive.
So I would only do it if you find that
you're sort of trying to hunt down
a process doing weird things like,
it's a rare and extreme thing.
All right, now, let me talk to
you about this error message.
So it's App.jsx, obviously, my file
is no longer App.jsx it's a App.tsx.
I suspect that there is some
cached information at some level,
from the old version of this app
that is still hanging around and
causing some problems.
I'm guessing it for two reasons, one,
I don't have a file by this name anymore,
I used to, I don't anymore,
so it's old information.
Number two, I just stopped
a development build that was happening
in another terminal that all
while we were editing this thing,
it's been doing its
thing in the background.
So it may have gone roke, this is where
it's time to blow away your cache,
that's the first thing I would do.
So let's see if we can find
where our cache is, all right,
so ls -a, so that you see all
these .files, here's a candidate.
There's cache .cache,
let's try that and dist,
And then let's try building again.
Already things looking better,
There we go, another thing you
don't have to learn the hard way.
Okay, let's check it out,
seems like slack,
seems like the App works at a high level.
And have a test suite too, but
it's also good to just make sure the App
is actually an App and it fires up.
So that's great, I think it's time for
a second commit.
So we're saying Convert to TS,
and then we're
gonna call this step,
no implicit any, and push.